Go to the wilderness.
That would make a terrible advertisement on a travel website, wouldn't it?
Right next to pictures of beaches, cruise liners, and ski resorts.
Why would anyone want to go to the wilderness?
Here's one reason.
Open your Bible to Matthew 14, 13.
Now, the earlier part of this chapter relates how John the baptizer was beheaded.
No one saw this coming, not even Jesus, the suddenness, gruesomeness,
an enormous injustice of John's execution led to what we read at Matthew 14, 13.
At hearing this, Jesus departed from their by boat into an isolated place to be alone.
Let's stop there.
The Greek word for isolated place is elsewhere translated wilderness.
In this verse, one Bible renders it a place where there were no people.
This wasn't the only time Jesus went to such a place.
For example, Matthew 4.1 says after his baptism,
Jesus was led by this spirit into the wilderness.
Now, why?
Well, think about what had just happened.
Matthew 3.16 says that Jesus' baptism, the heavens were opened up.
According to the study note, that expression might mean that at that moment,
Jehovah restored Jesus' memory of his pre-human life in heaven.
Now, we can't fathom what that moment must have been like.
I mean, even a blade of grass would look different to Jesus now
because now he could recall things about its creation.
Historical accounts like the deluge, the parting of the red sea,
the fall of Adam and Eve.
Jesus didn't need to imagine those events anymore.
It's likely he could remember them now just as they occurred.
He was in heaven alive when they happened.
Now, to process his restored memory and much more,
Jesus needed to go to the wilderness for 40 days.
To wonder, he didn't need 40 weeks, right?
But the point is, at times Jesus needed solitude
and he made sure that he got it.
And not just on rare occasions, Luke 5.16 says, and I quote,
he often went into the desolate areas.
We need to do that, too.
To go to the wilderness, in a figurative sense,
to create periods of solitude in our life,
to study God's Word, to pray, to be alone with our own thoughts.
But today, many people view solitude as distasteful,
something to avoid.
One Watchtower article includes this statement.
We seem so frightened today of being alone
that we never let it happen.
Another Watchtower article says,
simplicity of living has been replaced by a life of complexity.
People today fear being alone with their own thoughts.
Now, the Watchtower articles I just quoted were published
in the 1950s.
Back then, the big electronic threats to solitude
were TV and radio.
And the Watchtower called that a life of complexity.
At the time, it was.
But now we have this, and this, and even this.
There's always some device ringing,
dinging, or buzzing.
If we power off, we get anxious.
What if I miss something good, or what if someone needs me?
Even our sense of duty tells us,
shouldn't I always be available?
Try to spend just one hour in the wilderness
with all the interruptions we only get fractions of an hour,
what's been called a mess of minutes.
We shouldn't just accept that as an inevitable part
of modern living.
Instead, we should view it as all the more reason
to make sure we have periods of solitude in our life
to study God's Word, to pray, to meditate.
We need to take time to go to the wilderness, like Jesus did.
But let's be honest, that's hard to do.
Our plans for solitude can be disrupted.
It happened to Jesus in the account we read earlier
at Matthew 14.
In fact, the second part of Matthew 14 13
says that the crowd followed him into the wilderness.
So what did Jesus do?
Well, verse 14 says,
he took the time to cure their sick ones.
Verses 19 to 21, he even fed them.
But does that mean Jesus sacrificed his solitude
for the sake of people?
Not at all.
Look at verses 22 and 23.
And notice what Jesus did after he fed the crowd.
Then without delay, he made his disciples board the boat
and go ahead of him to the opposite shore.
While he sent the crowds away,
after sending the crowds away,
he went up on the mountain by himself to pray.
When evening came, he was there alone.
So Jesus got his solitude after all.
But how did it come about?
Let's look closer at two statements in verse 22.
First, he made his disciples board the boat
and go ahead of him to the opposite shore.
According to a translation handbook,
the original language word for he made
has a sense of urgency to it
and can mean he compelled or even forced.
What does that tell us?
Jesus realized he wouldn't have solitude
unless he made it happen.
Now we too need to make room for solitude in our schedule.
For example, if our social calendar is so full
that we have no time for study, prayer, and meditation,
we need to take control like Jesus did.
To help us do that, the December 8, 1987 awake article,
time or you, it's master or it's slave,
gives this advice, do not feel obligated
to accept every social invitation that comes your way.
Learn to say no tactfully.
Now, on those occasions,
when we do need to say no,
we might feel like we're putting our friends on a boat
and sending them to the opposite shore.
And in a sense, we are.
But we're not being cruel.
And we won't lose them as friends.
They're spiritual people, so they'll understand.
They can't say yes to everything either.
Not if it crowds out all their time
for study, prayer, and meditation.
Our friends also value their opportunities
to go to the wilderness.
Now, the second statement in verse 22,
Jesus sent the crowds away.
Notice he didn't wait for them to make the first move.
No, he sent them away.
What does that tell us?
That even if some people wanted more from Jesus,
he wasn't always available.
And he didn't feel guilty about it.
Jesus needed uninterrupted periods of solitude
for prayer and meditation.
After all, if he didn't maintain a spiritual strength,
eventually he'd be of no help to anyone.
Now, like Jesus at times,
we might need to send the crowds away.
In other words, to make sure our solitude isn't interrupted.
For example, as we study,
we might want to turn off notifications on our devices.
Send the crowds away.
It's just for a little while.
You know, researchers say
that the mere presence of a phone can distract us.
So if we're the type that can't stop checking for messages,
we might even need to put our phone in another room.
The point is, whatever it takes,
we don't want to deprive ourselves of the benefits
that solitude can bring.
Now, one final point, verse 25,
says Jesus didn't return to his disciples
until the fourth watch.
That's somewhere between 3 and 6 a.m.
What does that tell us?
Jesus didn't sacrifice his solitude for the sake of people.
He sacrificed his sleep for the sake of solitude.
People were important to Jesus,
but not at the expense of his spiritual condition.
And that's why he made it a point to go to the wilderness
and to do it often.
Now, if Jesus, the perfect son of God needed to do that,
how much more so do we in our imperfect condition?
Now, you students of the 157th class of Gilead
will be going to your assignments with added training,
added responsibility, and added demands.
After all, Luke 1248 says,
everyone to whom much was given, much will be demanded.
But no matter how many demands your assignment may bring,
don't neglect your need for uninterrupted private time
to study God's Word, to pray, to meditate.
You will draw closer to Jehovah
and be a greater asset to his people
if you value your opportunities to go to the wilderness.